[Music]
Hello, in the last two parts of the role of a director,
you saw how a director
creates a script,
divides the work among his team, selects the shooting location and the characters.
In this part, we will
learn how a director shoots
and edits a video. Be
quiet,
no one will speak during the video recording
and everyone should put their phones on silent mode.
Ready action. Today we will tell you
how to treat paddy seeds.
In a video shooting, the
role of the director is the most important
and his responsibility is also the
highest. Therefore, along with your work, you have to
keep a close eye on the work of all the members of your team. For example,
when the camera person has
prepared the frame for the shooting, he should see
that the shots are according to the story board, the
character should be visible properly inside the frame
and his clothes should be visible properly, the mic should be
installed properly and its wire should not be
visible. Before shooting,
record the sound of the mic installed in the camera and play it and
listen to it to make sure that the sound is completely clear and
until the director gets a perfect shot,
he should not hesitate in taking retakes.
A director is also responsible for which scene will be shot when and how.
A director should be
mentally
and physically ready to face every situation during the shooting so that
he can complete his shooting on time. For
example,
if for some reason you are unable to shoot at the location you had decided for the shoot, then
you should
already have the option of another location.
Similarly, if a character is
unable to come for the shoot, then you should have the option of another character in place of him.
Having a plan B ready increases the confidence of a director
about video shooting, due to
which the shooting can be
completed without any interruption. Editing
of the video is done in the last part of the video making process.
If the director
knows editing, then he can edit the video himself,
otherwise he can tell the editor
when and where to take which shot.
For editing a good video, it is
very important to have proper coordination and understanding between the director and the editor and yes, one more
important thing is that a day before the shooting, the
director along with the team should properly check all his shooting
equipment like camera, battery, mic, reflector
and diffuser
and prepare it with the story board.  The
director should also ensure that his
team, script and the final video are gender
sensitive and there should
not be any discussion in the video that shows inequality between men and women. So, in
this way you have seen
how important a role a director plays in making a video.
A good
video depends to a large extent on the efficient leadership of a director,
a good team and a good
script. And in the end, by
taking care of all these things, you too
can become a good director.
Thank you
[Music]